numpy, sklearn, matplotlib

We will use the median to split our decision tree.
For each split, we create two new branches (subsets of the dataset).
We then split each of the subsets into sub-subsets, etc.
This will get expensive fast as the number of calculations grows at 19 * 2**n.
That is why we need max_depth and stopping conditions.

We should let the user decide whether to use entropy or the gini index as impurity measures.

The user should be able to set a max_depth. The decision tree should not split deeper after this point.
When we hit max_depth we return a leaf node with the most common label.

Building a tree is basically just a DFS search:
    1. We check base case.
    2. We split root.
    3. We go into the first child.
    4. We check base case for first child.
    5. We split the first child.
    (...)
    n. We go into the second child.
    n+1. We split the second child.
    etc.

On calculating entropy and information gain
In order to calcualte which split gives us the most information gain we have to do the following:
    1. Calculate the entropy of the current dataset: H(x)
    2. Calculate the conditional entropy of the subsets: H(y|x)
    3. Calculate the information gain: H(x) - H(y|x)
This will be the same if we use the gini index.

On model selection (validation)
The lecture mentions a few ways of doing this:
    - Hold-out validation (normal train_test_split)
    - Sample re-use methods: Cross validation, bootstrap
    - Analytical approximations
The two things that sound most reasonable is:
    - Hold-out validation
    - k-fold cross validation

Hold-out validation
We split off about 15% of our dataset for model selection.
Our dataset has 7032 samples, so we would be using ~1055 samples for model selection.
We will be using ~1055 for testing, which leaves ~4922 for training.
So we will only be training the tree on 70% of our data.
The good thing about it is that it is really easy and I already know how to do it.

k-fold cross validation
We divide the whole dataset into k subsets.
For every subset, we train a decision tree on all the other subsets and evaluate on that subset.
This will give us k experiments.
We combine the performance measures of all our experiments.
We will still have to split off 15% for testing.
We will be left with k subsets of size (5977/k).
Smaller subsets for training could mean that we lack information.
However, on the whole we still train on more data.
We are able to use all 85% for training, just in different experiments.

On choosing hyperparameters.
It there are way to many hyperparameters to choose.
We need a strategy to find the best ones.

Grid search vs Randomized search

Grid search searches pre-set points.
Easy, but might miss the best settings for each hyperparameter if they do not fall on the grid.

Randomized search searches within a pre-set range, a set number of times.
More complex, but has a better chance of finding optimal settings for hyperparameters.

Which hyperparameters should you tune?
    - criterion
    - max_depth
Which values should you test for each hyperparameter?
    - criterion has two values ("entropy", "gini")
    - max_depth should be something like range(1, 20) (log2 of 7032 is ~13)
        the best setting should be smaller than 13 though, something like 8 maybe?
Which model selection method should you use?
    - 5-fold cross validation
        using normal hold-out validation will be less stable
        we split data into 5 subset
        we train each of the 5 models on 4/5 subsets and test on the 5th
        we take the mean accuracy score of all 5 models
        this represents the hyperparameter combination
        we pick the best combination and train a model on 5/5 subsets using that combination
Which performance measure should you use for model selection?
    The classes in our dataset are not balanced (0: 5163, 1: 1869)
    This means that a model which guesses 0 every time will have a ~75% accuracy.
    Accuracy is therefore a bad performance measure.
    What about precision, recall and F1-score?
        - Precision: (TP/(TP+FP))
        - Recall: (TP/(TP+FN))
        - F1: 2*((precision*recall)/(precision+recall))
    False negatives are costly, false positives have a cost, but not as high.
    Precision focuses on how many predicted positives were true positives.
    Recall focuses on how many of the true positives we caught.
    F1 tries to balance both of these.
    Therefore we should do F1.

How do you ensure that your model selection proecess is fair and unbiased?
How can you ensure reproducibilitu of your results?
